Now that you've had
a refresher on HTTP and HTTPS, you are ready to learn about REST APIs. But first, you need to know what is REST. In other words,
what makes the API RESTful? An API or application programming
interface is a gateway to back-end data. It allows you to easily access and
modify this data, And REST is an architectural style for
designing APIs for your project. It is hugely popular among developers
because it's much easier to develop and implement than other architectural styles. What works in your favor is that
the learning curve isn't steep and you can create production-ready APIs in a short
time but let's not jump too far ahead. You're not quite creating APIs yet rather you're first learning
about the basics of REST APIs. REST APIs provide an easy way for
you to communicate with the server and access the data that
powers your application. But an API is only RESTful if it
complies with certain constraints. Let's examine them. It must have client-server architecture, a REST API is always Stateless,
and it should be Cacheable. It should be layered,
have a uniform interface and it might also include code on demand,
but this is optional. Let's explore each in more detail. The API should use
client-server architecture. There should be a server that
is serving the resources and there should be a client
who consumes them. A REST API is Stateless, this means
that the server does not contain any state of the API client
who is making the call so it cannot identify who
is making the request or what their previously requested data
was without proper user information. In fact, the State is only saved on
the client machine, not on the server and this influences what you should include
in your API endpoints or URL Paths but more on this later. The API should also be Cacheable. This means that responses can be saved by
a web browser or a server or any system. This caching process can help to reduce
the server load by using the API result from the cache instead of making an actual
request to the server every time. Layered means that the entire system
architecture can be split or decoupled into multiple layers and you should be
able to add or remove a layer at any time. The following diagram will make
this layering more understandable. Layers of a RESTful API system could
include a Firewall Load balancer, a Web server, and a Database. Let's move on to the constraint
of having a uniform interface. This may sound a little confusing at this
point, but it means that the system should offer a uniform communication
system to access the resources. For example, there should be
unique URLs for each resource. There should also be a unified way to
modify or proceed further with a resource from the API result or representation
in a standard XML or Jason format. Lastly, code on demand means that the API
may deliver some business logic or code that the client can run to
further improve the response result. To understand this code-on-demand feature,
consider the following script tag that loads some JavaScript code from an API
endpoint of the Little Lemon Restaurant. Once loaded this script can display
any special menu items for that day. For now, these six constraints
are just theoretical. Do not let them confuse you once you
start developing your APIs these terms will become clear to you. Next, let's focus on Resources. Resources are a core
part of every REST API. So, it's important for you to become
familiar with how APIs present Resources. Say the Little Lemon Restaurant
has a mobile App which can be used by customers and managers. Managers can use the App to get
information about orders and customers while the customers use this
App to browse the menu and place orders. To support this, the App uses different
APIs to fetch data from the server and in each case,
the resource type will be different. Let's explore a few examples. If a manager wants to see all orders,
the App makes a call to the API little dot lemon forward slash orders and
displays the result. The resource type in this case
is a list of order objects. If a manager wants to view more specific
information about a particular order, say the order with the ID 16,
the App makes a call to the API little dot lemon forward slash
orders forward slash 16. The resource type is the order object. To see who placed the order, the App makes an API call with an extra
filter forward slash customer. This retrieves all the details
about the customer of that order. The resource type in this
case is the customer object. Say the manager wants to look at what
the menu items of order number 16 were, the App makes an API call that
replaces forward slash customer with forward slash menu items. Only the menu items of order
16 will show on the result and this time the resource type
is the menu item object. Now on the other hand,
if the customer wants to browse the menu, the App uses another API,
little dot lemon forward slash menu items. And although the resource type will
also be the menu items object, the return will be all available
menu items of the restaurant. But sometimes the resource type is the
same although the result can be filtered to be more specific. Let's explore a final API to unpack this. This time the customer wants to browse
food items from a specific category say appetizers, the App will add question
mark category equal sign appetizers. Notice that the endpoint is
the same as the previous API but it filters the output to only appetizers. For both cases, however,
the resources still menu item object. Now that you've explored a few
examples of API resources, let's revisit the REST API Constraint
of Statelessness. You need to keep in mind that the server
always represents only what you ask for. It does not remember anything
of what happened before. For instance, if the manager retrieves
the information about order 16 and then wants to look at the menu items
of order 16, you cannot just send a follow-up HTTP request to the endpoint
forward slash menu items because this API will return all menu items and
not just the menu items of order 16. The server does not remember that your
earlier call was for a specific order. If you want to get the menu items for
a specific order number, you need to explicitly supply that
order number to the server as orders forward slash 16 forward slash menu items. In simple terms,
this is what Stateless means. The server cannot recognize
the client automatically. API calls must include more
information about the user but you will learn more about
this later in the course. In this video, you have learned how to create REST APIs
by following some key constraints. You also learned about the core parts
of REST APIs like the Resource types. These conventions will help you build
APIs that are easy to use and maintain. But there is a lot more to learn on how
to optimize your APIs for instance, using the correct naming convention,
but more on this in an upcoming video.