By now you should know the best
practices for developing APIs. But there is another important aspect
of APIs to consider, security. The core purpose of APIs is to
make your data more accessible. Not just for your apps and websites but
also for third party clients. This way your data
becomes even more useful. But don't forget,
because APIs are publicly available, they may pose a risk to
your back-end services. Essentially, APIs give third party apps
access to your server and database. That is why it is crucial to secure APIs. This video covers how to keep
your API safe and secure. And you'll learn about
various security concepts and how to implement them in your own APIs. First up is SSL, or Secure Socket Layer. SSL encrypts your data and protect your data when it leaves
your browser and the web server. When you set up the SSL certificates
properly your APIs can be served over HTTPS. The frontend and mobile application team
that works on the Little Lemon project, want to ensure that the data
is transported securely. So, the API team has used SSL
certificates from a reputed provider and installed them. Now all the API endpoints are secured and
serve data over HTTPS instead of HTTP. That's why it's important
to always check that the endpoint of your APIs starts
with HTTPS instead of HTTP. Next is signed URLs. The little Lemon Project team
wants to ensure that the API calls are coming to it from their mobile
application and their website only. This is where signed URLs come in. Signed URLs give a client application
limited access to a specific resource for a brief period of time. With a signed URL,
every time an API is called, a particular piece of text called
a signature is included with the URL. Server side code can
verify the signature and ensure that the call comes
from an authentic source. But how do developers
create these signatures? HMAC is a popular signing mechanism
used by modern applications. It is easy to use and ensures the
authenticity and integrity of the message. For example, some secret message,
encoded by a digest algorithm with a secret key, some secret
key creates this HMAC signature. Next, let's discuss authentication. All of us are familiar with the user
names and password based authentication, but sending a user name and passwords
to every API call is frustrating and it's not secure. So, the Little Lemon team prefers
using token based authentication over HTTP based authentication
when securing its API. Because basic authentication requires
users to send their user name and password in every call. With token-based authentication,
the user sends their user name and password to the sign in URL, and
then receives a unique token in text form. After that, every API call will
include this token as a HTTP header. The server side code can check the token,
extract the information hidden in it and match it with an existing user. After this verification, the rest of the work is performed
on behalf of that matching user. To create this token, you can use an ad hoc policy from
the backend framework we're using, or you can use something more industry
standard, like JSON Web Token or JWT. You will learn more about
this later in the course. Next, you need to know that there are a
couple of popular HTTP codes involved during the authentication process,
that you should be aware of. 401 means unauthorized. In this context, unauthorized means
the user name and password don't match. So the server cannot continue further. And then there is 403,
which means forbidden. This is an interesting code, and it means
that your credentials are valid and you have successfully identified yourself,
but you don't have the authority
to perform the action. Last is the cross origin resource
sharing or CORS policy and firewalls. When you design an A PI, you can accept
calls from everywhere, or by configuring the cores headers, you can only accept
calls from some specific domains. And finally, another security measure
that you can use is firewalls. If you want to ensure that only specific
IP addresses can access your A PI, you can use a firewall
application on your server. In this video,
you have learned how to protect your APIs. Security is an important
consideration when designing APIs, and you are now better positioned
to protect your infrastructure and keep your user data safe and secure.