If you want to work quickly and efficiently as a developer, you need the right tools. For example, an intelligent
code editor can help you develop more rapidly and
become more competent. In this video, you will learn about a few command line and graphical tools that you can use to play around
with your APIs. You will also explore a
practical demonstration of how to test APIs in Insomnia. These tools are a
cross-platform, so you can use them on Windows, macOS, and Linux. You will be using
some of these tools like Insomnia
throughout this course. It's important to
learn about them now. Let's get started. First is curl, a well-known tool for
developers who want to make HTTP calls from
the command line. It is available for all
major operating systems, but it doesn't have
a graphical tool. To use curl, simply
open your PowerShell in Windows or the terminal
and Linux or macOS, type curl and hit "Enter". Curl makes it easy to
send HTTP GET requests. For example, simply add
the API URI after curl. This command sends a HTTP
GET request to Postman Echo, a service from
Postman to display the headers and request
body sent to it. Pretty useful for
testing API calls. It works slightly differently
for a POST request. This time, add to the
request body using hyphen d and the
HTTP method name, which is POST, preceded by hyphen X. The second tool is Postman, which has cross-platform
desktop tools that make it easy to test
and debug APIs. With an advanced graphical
interface and a web version, Postman is a powerful
tool for API development. With Postman, you spend
less time fiddling with API details and more time
building the perfect API. You can explore
their website and the additional readings for more information and
learning materials. Another important tool is
the Insomnia REST Client, a powerful REST API
client used to store, organize, and execute
REST API requests. Insomnia is free,
cross-platform, and comes with a very
user-friendly interface. You can download and
install insomnia for your operating
system from the link provided in the
additional reading at the end of this lesson. Note that there's only a
desktop version for insomnia. In the rest of this course, you will be using
Insomnia to play and interact with
the APIs you build. Let's examine how to use this. Insomnia is a great tool
for playing with APIs. All requests in Insomnia will be saved in a
request collection. To get started, click
on the Create button in the top right corner and
select Request collection. Give it a name like first
collection and click on Create. Now you are inside
an empty collection. To create your
first API request, click on the Plus icon on the left sidebar and
select HTTP Request. You can also do this by
pressing Command plus N on macOS or Control plus N
in Windows and Linux. You can double-click on
the default request name, new request, and
change the name to something more personal,
like first request. At the top of the middle
section where it says GET, you can click and
select the type of HTTP method your
request is going to be. Leave it as GET for now. In the text box next to it, write your API URL, httpshttpbin.org/get?project=LittleLemon. httpbin.org is a free service that allows you to
experiment with different types of HTTP methods. When you call one of these APIs, it prints back what
you sent to it. Now hit the Send button on
the right and you will see that httpbin has returned the same query argument
you sent to it, which in your case was project
is equal to LittleLemon. This time let's try making
a new HTTP POST request. To do this, click
on the Plus icon in the left sidebar and
select HTTP Request. Once the request is created, double-click on its name
and give it a new name, such as second request. Now click on the HTTP method drop-down and select
POST and this time add httpshttpbin.org/post
in the URL field. You already know that a HTTP POST request accepts arguments as form
data or JSON data. With Insomnia, you can easily input data for a POST request by clicking on the body
tab and selecting Form URL Encoded or JSON. Here in this argument window, you can finally layout all your arguments in an easy to use and
organized manner. On the left, you can write the argument name and on
the right, the value. Write project in
the argument field and LittleLemon as the value. Now click on the Send button
to display the output. You can create as
many requests as you want and come back later
to play with them anytime. In this video, you learned about great tools such
as Curl, Postman, and Insomnia that you can use to create and test your APIs.