The Little Lemon API provides a variety of
API which allow you to view the details of an order. The output of these API may contain
sensitive data such as customers delivery addresses which should not
be visible to the public. Only manager or delivery crew accounts
should be able to access these APIs and anyone else who tries to
access them should be denied. This is where access control
comes in handy in an API project, with access control you can specify which
users are allowed to access your API. And what data they can see, that way
you can be sure that only the people who are supposed to manage
your data can access it. In this video you will learn about
controlling access to your APIs. Roles and privileges are the building
blocks of designing and access control system. A role is a collection of privileges and a privilege is if you are allowed
to do a particular task. If you consider the customer
role in the restaurant project, it is made of the following privileges. Customers can browse menu items,
add menu items to the cart, place orders, add food reviews and
browse their own orders. On the other hand, someone with a manager
role will be able to do the following, add menu items, edit menu items,
delete menu items and browse all orders. Managers can also browse customer data, assign orders to the delivery crew and
browse transaction data. And the delivery crew will only be able
to perform the following tasks, browse orders that are assigned to them and
update the status of an assigned order. There can be several roles like
these in your project, for example, administrators, senior managers,
HR accounts and so on. Each role has a collection of
carefully thought out privileges, the more detailed and specific these
privileges are the better the access control system you can design for
your API project. You have probably heard about
the term authorization before, it is just another word for
access control. Keep in mind that authentication and
authorization are two different things. Authentication gets you in and
authorization allows you to do something after authentication or
prevents you from doing it. In a real life project, a user can perform
multiple tasks from different roles. For example the general manager of the
Little Lemon restaurant should be able to perform everything an accountant, HR
representative and a normal manager can. So how can you deal with such
issues while designing the API. You can create one role and
assign all the essential privileges to it. So a manager will have all the privileges
and accountant as, then you can update or edit these privileges from
time to time as needed. This makes it easy to keep your rolls
up to date and tailored to your needs. The second approach is that one
user can have multiple roles, task specific roles make it easy to assign
the right privileges to the right people. So your accountants will only have
access to accounting features while your HR team will only have access
to HR management features. And there's also a manager specific
role with relevant privileges, this way you can assign all three
roles to the general manager and they will be able to perform every task
an accountant HR and a manager can do. And if you assign a new privilege
to the accountant role, the general manager will automatically
have that privilege added to their role. API design is not complete without
effective access control by taking the proper time to design and
plan out your privileges and roles. You make life easier for developers and
avoid costly debugging and refactoring down the road. A well designed API access control system
is an asset for the whole project, it saves time and money in the long run.